Update 01-introduction.md - project management intro added (#106)
carpentries-incubator/managing-computational-projects: episodes/files/01-introduction.md

## Project Management in a research context

The research workflow, also known as the research cycle, usually starts with a research idea, via a literature search on what is already known on the subject, to data collection and analysis, to writing, publishing, and the final assessment of a study. Each of these steps in a given research project involves aspects of project management that such as planning, coordination, execution and monitoring of the team, resources (budgets, materials, equipment), and timeliness according to schedule. 

> **Project Design and Planning** involves defining the project plan which includes the scope, objectives, milestones, and deliverables within the available timeline. A great way to visualise the project plan is the Gantt chart, a horizontal bar chart on a time scale, reflecting all of a project’s components, dependencies, and responsibilities. [GanttProject](https://www.ganttproject.biz/) and [GNOME Planner](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Planner/) are two open-source project management applications that allow you to visualise your project plan in a Gantt chart. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Project Design and Planning** involves defining the project plan which includes the scope, objectives, milestones, and deliverables within the available timeline.
This includes the creation of a timetable or Gantt chart usually created during the grant application.

  A great way to visualise the project plan is the Gantt chart, a horizontal bar chart on a time scale, reflecting all of a project’s components, dependencies, and responsibilities. [GanttProject](https://www.ganttproject.biz/) and [GNOME Planner](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Planner/) are two open-source project management applications that allow you to visualise your project plan in a Gantt chart. 
```

**Resource Management** includes the managing of the budget, allocation of funds to each step over time, and ensuring that deliverables and objectives will be met within the available timeframe.

> Team Management defines the responsibilities for every team member on specific steps and aspects of the research project. It also includes task assignments, progress monitoring, and team efficiency to thus produce results (data)and thereby meet the objectives and goals of the research project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Team Management** is the task of making people work together. It includes the definition of the responsibilities for every team member on specific steps and aspects of the research project, task assignments, progress monitoring, and team efficiency measures to thus produce results. It is core in meeting the objectives and goals of a research project.
```

**Data Management** is the core of every research project, including the collection, organisation, analysis and secure storing of research data. A Data Management Plan (DMP) is increasingly a necessary component of the project design process and in research proposals, and describes in all details how and where the collected research will be recorded, stored securely, and made accessible for analysis and reuse. Furthermore, the F.A.I.R. Data Principles are equally important to comply with to make research data human- as well as machine-readability to ensure they are findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable, and thus FAIR. We will discuss FAIR data in more detail in episode XX.

**Risk Management** is an assessment and documentation of any foreseeable events that might arise and interfere with the success of the project. and adaption

> With a S.W.O.T. Analysis as part of the project plan, it is possible to describe strengths and weaknesses of the project idea, and also opportunities and threats that might impact the project through external factors. A thorough risk assessment allows you to make contingency plans to address any challenges or issues should they occur.

Reviewer: needs links and large definition, what is swot.

**Communication and Reporting** includes the effective communication among team members and project stakeholders (project partners, funders, librarians, publishers, …) to keep everyone updated on the project’s progress. A key component here is the strategic  documentation and reporting of the methodologies and any adjustments along the execution of the project. 
Electronic Lab Notebooks (ELNs) provide a certain amount of interoperability between systems to automate some of the documentation process, thereby making it easier and more efficient to comply with the FAIR principles. 
-	ELNs
-	Progress reports

**Monitoring and Evaluation** involves ensuring quality control throughout the execution of the project and the adherence to research policies and procedures, lessons learned and conclusions that can be drawn from the results.  

> Research teams often work remotely with team members often being located in different parts of the world, and therefore need tools that allow for real-time collaboration. as well as access to process documentation, files, and data to all team members at any given time. 

Reviewer: misplaced? go to team management?

> **Project Management tools**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Project Management tools
```

**Project Design and Planning** involves defining the project plan which includes the scope, objectives, milestones, and deliverables within the available timeline.
This includes the creation of a timetable or Gantt chart usually created during the grant application.

  A great way to visualise the project plan is the Gantt chart, a horizontal bar chart on a time scale, reflecting all of a project’s components, dependencies, and responsibilities. [GanttProject](https://www.ganttproject.biz/) and [GNOME Planner](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Planner/) are two open-source project management applications that allow you to visualise your project plan in a Gantt chart. 

**Resource Management** includes the managing of the budget, allocation of funds to each step over time, and ensuring that deliverables and objectives will be met within the available timeframe.

> **Team Management** defines the responsibilities for every team member on specific steps and aspects of the research project. It also includes task assignments, progress monitoring, and team efficiency to thus produce results (data)and thereby meet the objectives and goals of the research project. Research teams often work remotely with team members being located in different parts of the world, and therefore need tools that allow for real-time collaboration, as well as access to process documentation, files, and data to all team members at any given time. 

Reviewer: **Team Management** is the task of making people work together. It includes the definition of the responsibilities for every team member on specific steps and aspects of the research project, task assignments, progress monitoring, and team efficiency measures to thus produce results. It is core in meeting the objectives and goals of a research project.

> **Team Management** defines the responsibilities for every team member on specific steps and aspects of the research project. It also includes task assignments, progress monitoring, and team efficiency to thus produce results (data)and thereby meet the objectives and goals of the research project. Research teams often work remotely with team members being located in different parts of the world, and therefore need tools that allow for real-time collaboration, as well as access to process documentation, files, and data to all team members at any given time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Team Management** is the task of making people work together. It includes the definition of the responsibilities for every team member on specific steps and aspects of the research project, task assignments, progress monitoring, and team efficiency measures to thus produce results. It is core in meeting the objectives and goals of a research project.

Research teams often work remotely with team members being located in different parts of the world, and therefore need tools that allow for real-time collaboration, as well as access to process documentation, files, and data to all team members at any given time.
```
